#roBoat-resQ

Sangam project work. In the event of floods, like the one in Chennai a few years back. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x4dNIfx6HVs . During these times there was no power, no network connectivity and many people were stranded with very minimal food and life supplies. Even though supplies were given through helicopters it was very difficult for the authorities to pin point places where the damage was very high. This inspired the idea of this robot. The roBoat-resQ, as the name says is an autonomous, floating robot. This robot can be sent into the areas where flooding is high to figure out exactly where people require help. The robot can send SOS messages upon a button press or in a case of loud sound. This can be done even when there is no power and no network connectivity with the help of solar charging and smart usage of mesh network formed by a swarm of these similar robots with each sending information about all robots to each other. This is like block-chaining technology used in crypto currency. If any robot of this swarm gets momentary connection, all the information is transferred to a database.The robot’s onboard GPS module enables waypoint travel in flooded streets. Upon button press the GPS info is transmitted to the mesh network. The robot a depth sensor which checks the level of water at a location to get valuable information. This information can be used to prevent future instances by knowing where evacuations must be done. The robot’s path and stability are controlled by using an IMU to get accelerometer and gyroscope data. Further 8 IR sensors on the sides can be used to detect obstacles and the robot can avoid it. The robot will also give out loud buzzing noise to indicate its arrival and will also have an led array to make it visible at night.
